---
layout: post
title:      "Is Programming Right For You?"
date:       2019-03-14 12:47:37 +0000
permalink:  is_programming_right_for_you
---


If you are reading this I am sure you are looking for an answer to the question in the title that brought you to this blog. I am going to try to the best of my ability help you get an understanding of what life is like as a Web Development student and if it is the right path for you to go down. Please note this is based solely on my personal experience and background and what I was able to take away from a course like Flatiron School. 

Throughout my professional career I have worked in a variety of industries doing different types of jobs. The most recent position I held was a sales position for software. If you have worked for a company that makes most of the revenue through sales then you will be able to relate to my situation. In order to sell the software better, reps usually ask the “Why” question. This gives the rep insight to why the app does what it does, why it integrates with some systems and not others, etc. I found myself asking the engineering team the “How” question. Big difference there. After numerous of sessions with the dev’s they quickly told me that boot camps were an option instead of going for an additional 4 year degree. This is where the Journey officially began. 

Before signing up for a school or even doing research on school, I tried to familiarize myself with terminology, programming languages, what businesses use what languages essentially. I also consulted with friends and colleagues that were already working in this field. However when I asked them questions the answers they provided didn't make too much sense to me at the time (since I had no knowledge of what they were talking about). Finally I found a “Pizza and Code Event”, which really peaked my interest due to the word pizza being in the title. This was my first exposure to actual programming, aside from my making my myspace look cool years ago. These coding events for people considering to tap into the industry is a great starting point. You learn some of the basic fundamentals of writing code, how to test using the browser, among other things. Throughout the day at this event it was all coding, It was truly was incredible to work with other students by building a basic vending machine application that allowed the user to type in a selection and the candy would move from the machine to the human’s hand. I know it's not the most complex application. 

After completing the Pizza and Code event, the lightbulb went home as I was driving home that web development gave me the immediate satisfaction that I rarely got in my sales roles. I decided I needed to start looking into different bootcamps to start my new journey. If you were to go to google right this second and type in “coding boot camps near me/online” you will be surprised to see SO MANY options. This threw me off personally because I didn't know what I was looking for. Upon consulting my friends in the industry I learned that Ruby, Javascript, React, and Redux would be the best tech stack that I can learn to get started. They are challenging but not impossible for newcomers to start with. After doing some research I was able to narrow down my search. Most bootcamps offer a 12-16 program that allows you dedicate 3-4 months of full time work to become an entry level developer. For me, that seemed to rushed I wanted to make sure I was able to absorb, practice, and build as I went through the program. Not go so fast to the point that I don't remember what I learned. I had a few interviews at different bootcamps and I was able to finalize my decision to go to the Flatiron school. 

Flatiron not only provided  more in depth knowledge of the actual coursework but allowed me to work remotely online while still getting the feeling of “being in a classroom”. They also had a job placement guarantee in reference to the tuition cost with a personalized Career Coach to help me land my first job. 

Please understand that web development and software engineering is not for everybody. That doesn't mean that not everybody can learn it. If you follow along the same path I did, I am sure you will be able to come to a conclusion of whether this is the right fit for you or not! I hope it is and I hope this blog has helped if you are curious about diving into the world of technology. Live. Breathe. Eat. Code. 

